---
title: The Simple Book of Sales & Marketing
Description: Principles, Strategies, and Techniques for Startups and Small Businesses
published: true
layout: page
author: Dhawal Tank
comments: true
---

This book is for the startup founder or small business owner who 
just wants to bring in customers, nurture them, and increase sales. It 
is for people who want to get back to their main work and not spend 
countless hours fiddling with marketing ideas. It’s for those who don’t 
have the time, resources or inclination to hire a marketing agency or a 
marketing expert.

You will be able to start using the ideas right away. In fact, you 
can implement an idea today and have customers coming in from it by 
tomorrow.

The content here is based on evergreen principles of effective 
marketing and sales. It will not become stale. There is limited 
technical jargon talk.

**Table Of Contents**

-   [Are You Getting All You Can For Your Business?](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#1-are-you-getting-all-you-can-for-your-business)
    
-   [My Story](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#3-my-story)
    
-   [What to Expect](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#3-what-to-expect)
    
-   [Principles](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#5-principles)
    
-   [Principle #1: Defeat Sales and Marketing Resistance!](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#6-principle-1-defeat-sales-and-marketing-resistance)
    
-   [Principle #2: Be Valuable to Your Customers](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#7-principle-2-be-valuable-to-your-customers)
    
-   [Principle #3: Talk to Your Customers In Their Language](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#9-principle-3-talk-to-your-customers-in-their-language)
    
-   [Principle #4: Be Direct (Make an Offer)](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#10-what-direct-marketing-is)
    
-   [Principle #5: What Gets Measured Gets Improved](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#12-what-gets-measured-gets-improved)
    
-   [Principle #6: Send Your Customer to School](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#13-sending-your-customer-to-school)
    
-   [Principle #7: Money Math](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#15-are-you-throwing-your-money-away)
    
-   [Strategies](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#16-strategies)
    
-   [#1: Market, Message, Medium — in that order](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#17-market-message-medium)
    
-   [#2: Referrals: The Fastest, Cheapest, Easiest Way to Grow](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#18-referrals-the-fastest-cheapest-easiest-way-to-grow)
    
-   [#3: The Pen is Mightier than the Dollar](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#20-the-pen-is-mightier-than-the-dollar)
    
-   [#4: Your Unique Selling Proposition is what moves Customers](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#21-your-unique-selling-proposition-is-what-moves-customers)
    
-   [#5: Databases for fun and profit](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#22-databases-for-fun-and-profit)
    
-   [#6: New Offers](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#23-new-offers)
    
-   [#7: New Markets](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#24-new-markets)
    
-   [#8: Different Strokes for Different Folks](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#25-segmentation)
    
-   [#9: Holding a Conversation aka Selling!](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#26-how-to-sell-without-feeling-weird)
    
-   [#10: Customer Service: The beginning of a relationship](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#27-customer-service-the-beginning-of-a-relationship)
    
-   [Implementation](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#28-implementation)
    
-   [Tools](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#29-tools)
    
-   [Digital](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#30-digital)
    
-   [Analog](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#31-analog)
    
-   [Outsourcing](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#32-outsourcing)
    
-   [Other things?](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#33-other-things)
    
-   [Final Thoughts](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#34-final-thoughts)
    
-   [Fast-track your success](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#35-fast-track-your-success)
    
-   [Your Turn](https://dtank.co/marketing-book/#36-your-turn)
    

## Are You Getting All You Can For Your Business?

The world of marketing is more messy and crowded than ever before. 
There are new tools, publications, platforms, gimmicks, and formats 
coming out everyday, and it’s hard to figure out what works and what 
doesn’t. There are many marketing experts that are all re-selling and 
re-packaging some hot new technique to make you money fast. It is easy 
to get fooled, distracted, and lose track of what works vs. what 
doesn’t.

There are many books and online courses that teach you the flavor of 
the month marketing tactic that supposedly made some person a 
millionaire overnight. This is not that type of book. It also assumes 
that marketing is an natural extension of your business, something that
 supports your unique products and services.

I’ve seen startups up close who raise a bunch of money and waste it 
in missionary work to cold call and get customers, or in developing 
products, services, and features that didn’t need to be made. A waste of
 money, time, and energy.

I’ve seen small business owners struggling to get their businesses 
established, to really find their own distinct position in the market, 
get customers, and keep them. Everywhere you look, there is more 
competition, more push to become the same–become a commodity like 
everyone else. I’ve seen up close these small business owners who think 
that to stand out takes too much work, is too dangerous, too risky. At 
the same time, their revenues stagnate if not decline, and things get 
tougher as customers never get to appreciate the knowledge, insights, 
and ideas that they have.

I’ve seen engineers, doctors, lawyers try to be someone they are not,
 or (equally worse) copy what everyone else is doing. This is a sure way
 to either burn out or become a commodity in the eyes of your customers.

The business owners and founders I’ve worked with have been good 
honest hardworking people who just wanted to build a business that 
served others, provided for their family, and feel good about it. When 
they struggled, I saw many people come in and snatch money with big 
dreams of overnight success, broad reach, or some other magical formula 
that will bring in a whole lot more business. But without skin in the 
game, they would come in, do some work, get paid, and leave whether the 
ideas worked or not.

Entrepreneurs and business owners don’t need more vague advice 
telling you how you need to become a purple elephant to stand out. Nor 
do you need more things like “16 step process to grow your business by 
328% in 27 days” or other such clickbait articles you might have seen on
 the Internet. This ends up being too specific to adapt to your 
business.

What’s needed are ideas that work. You want a general understanding 
of Principles to guide your decisions, and specific Tactics on how to 
implement them. That’s the approach this book takes.

I didn’t appreciate these struggles until I had to compete in the marketplace myself.

## My Story

I had taken the safe path. I grew up in an immigrant family, first in
 Canada, and after my marriage, in the USA (I live now in California). I
 pursued all the traditional markers of success: prestigious schools, 
jobs, career track, etc. I even got an MBA (don’t hold that against me).

Friends and family would come to me for advice and help in marketing.
 Except nothing I had learned with all the fancy degrees and big 
corporate experience seemed to work that well. The highly academic and 
corporate forms of marketing might work for Kraft Foods, P&G, or 
Unilever, but it didn’t work for these small businesses or startups.

I had to radically retrain myself to think and act differently. I 
started to invest a lot of time and money in studying what it takes to 
practically build a business — how to get the sale at the lowest price 
possible, develop a distinct voice to get a customer, keep this 
customer, and grow. I started to see these entrepreneurs as heroes who 
stand up and against all odds try to succeed, and how they become the 
backbone of the economy and their communities.

As I learned more about this world, I grew dissatisfied with my 
journey in the big business world. I liked to be closer to the customer,
 closer to the marketplace itself where my work’s impact can be seen and
 measured immediately. It’s a real thrill. I enjoyed selling and I 
enjoyed educating customers (this, as you will soon learn, is what the 
heart of real marketing is all about).

The results were astounding. I learned more from this self-guided 
education than in all the years of university. Work became a lot more 
refreshing, fun, and exciting. And what’s more is that it started to 
have big results.

I want to share these principles with you. You don’t have to slog it 
out for a lifetime to make a decent living. For startups, you can grow 
quickly not necessarily with more technology tools, but sound principles
 of marketing that have stood the test of time. For small business 
owners, it means spending your marketing dollars efficiently instead of 
throwing them into a black hole “hoping” a customer comes through the 
door.

I now spend my time working with startups and small businesses to 
help them setup a sales and marketing engine so that they can grow.

I’ve taken the best ideas from Claude Hopkins, Jay Abraham, Dan 
Kennedy, Perry Marshall, John Carlton, Brian Kurtz, etc. These people 
have collectively brought in billions of dollars of new sales through 
great marketing systems. If you haven’t heard these names, that’s 
deliberate by the marketing “experts” who choose instead to push to you 
ineffective branding experts that teach vague statements about 
“branding” or “frameworks” that might work in business school, but don’t
 survive contact with the real world. Other marketers offer thousand 
dollar courses that go into endless complexities. I believe that most 
startups and small businesses do not need those levels of complexity. 
80% of the impact can be had by 20% of ideas. I wish that you spend the 
least amount of time necessary to be up and running. I spend all my time
 learning and implementing the best ideas I can find.

I wrote this book for you: the business owner or startup founder. You
 can start implementing its ideas in 2-3 hours after that. It’s simple 
and it works. The simplest ideas in this book can be implemented within 
an hour, but even more complex ones might take no more than a few hours 
to initiate.

And if you’re willing to not wait any longer and want to get started 
working with me right away, contact me now to get started. We can setup 
an initial call where we can discover further the work that needs to be 
done. No cost for that. You can do it [here](https://dtank.co/contact/).

## What to Expect

We will first look at a few principles behind marketing and then we 
will go through the strategies and tactics that can bring in money for 
you today itself. Finally, there will be a short discussion on tools you
 can use to execute on all this.

For the purpose of this book, marketing is simply a message delivered
 to the right person who interacts with it to buy/solicit/express 
interest in your product or service. It is often a means of getting 
someone to raise their hand to express their interest in your business. 
The best type of marketing often does the job of the salesperson, but at
 scale. So it’s significantly more economical for you.

If you have some background in corporate marketing, please note that 
we will not incorporate parts of 4 Ps of marketing: product, price, 
placement, and promotion. You do not need this framework, and it can 
hinder your thinking in many ways to think about marketing in this way. 
Please set aside this theoretical framework for the rest of this book.

This also means that marketing is doable for everyone — not just for 
the creative types or people who’ve gone to business school. In fact, 
good and great marketing is less about being creative, and more about 
being in tune with your marketplace.

In the next section, we will be talking about the principles of great
 marketing that can put you ahead of 90% of small businesses out there 
with less sophistication!

## Principles

### Principle #1: Defeat Sales and Marketing Resistance!

Selling or marketing to someone is one of the most important things 
you can do for your business. But far too many people are hesitant to do
 that. It seems sleazy or manipulative. However, as a business owner, 
you must overcome this hesitancy. Not only is this one of the most 
important activities you need to perform, but you must also love it! 
This mindset is easier to cultivate than you might think.

If you had somehow found the cure to cancer sitting in your office 
(and let’s pretend that it has also passed all FDA tests and gotten 
regulatory approval), would you hesitate to promote it? Of course not! 
Similarly, find the importance of what your product does in the lives of
 your customers! What you have to sell is important. It changes lives of
 people (even if it is in a very small way). If a friend, co-worker or 
family member was suffering with cancer, you would talk about it. If you
 met a stranger, or had to market and sell to doctors and hospitals to 
tell them about this cure, you’d do it wholeheartedly. You’d realize the
 value of what you’re selling and wouldn’t hesitate to talk about it. 
You’d promote yourself with passion and enthusiasm.

You must develop this same passion and enthusiasm for marketing and selling your business’s products and services.

### Principle #2: Be Valuable to Your Customers

Developing this drive to promote your business will come if you think
 deeply not about you, your products and services, but about the 
customers you serve. Think about who they are, what their life 
challenges are. Picture what they dream about and what they struggle 
with. Understand their goals, their aspirations, and what keeps them up 
at night. You might serve many different types of customers, so your 
goal here is to make a composite, or maybe develop 2 or 3 buckets of 
types of customers you serve (also called personas). Spend your time 
getting in the head of your customer.

Then, try to find how your business and its products and services can
 help them. For example, dentists face stiff competition in cities where
 every block has a practice. However, by thinking about your patient as 
more than just a biological system that needs fixing, you can speak 
their language and communicate about what matters to them. Instead of 
marketing yourself as yet another dentist who’ll give you the “perfect 
smile” (whatever that means), you can talk about something deeper.

### Case Study

Instead of talking about the perfect smile generically, a dentist I worked with 
targeted all the office workers and executives in her area (we’ll talk 
about how to do this later on) and sent them a letter telling them how a
 great smile can make or break a deal in their job, help them appear 
more appealing for promotions at work, and included a story of a patient
 whose career took off after they got their teeth whitened, 
straightened, and got the right fillings because they felt more 
confident, in charge, etc. You better believe a message like this will 
have a greater appeal than a generic “get a great smile” message that 
we’re so used to seeing every dentist. This is because we spent the time
 thinking about the higher needs, wants, and values of the “executive” 
customer type.

What if you’re in a B2B marketing environment and you sell something 
industrial, devoid of such personal meaning? Ultimately, the buyer is 
just a human, and so getting into his or her higher needs and values 
will change the quality of marketing you do.

### Case Study

Instead of marketing great shipping products to his clients, a 
logistics B2B marketer in Canada created a campaign for widget 
manufacturers that a new free trade agreement with South Korea had 
opened up a new market for manufacturers of these widgets. He 
demonstrated that this market really needed widgets, so if they want to 
get started, then please contact the him to learn how to find clients to
 sell to and arrange for the logistics of the sale. This more specific 
targeting and message changed the quality of marketing responsiveness 
completely!

Even if you’re a charity trying to get business sponsors, it makes 
sense to appeal to just their sense of giving. Instead, find ways to 
give them higher value. For businesses, giving them a chance to promote 
their products and services to an audience that they care about reaching
 is the most important. Tell them that story! Even include a few case 
studies of businesses that have benefited in the bottom line by 
sponsoring a charity event.

Once you start seeing your business from the eyes of your customer, 
you will start to see the necessity of what you do and a deep 
opportunity to serve the market with your products and services. And if 
you are faced with a daunting realization that you a lot like everyone 
else in the marketplace — worry not! We will discuss what to do about it
 in the coming sections.

#### Activity

Think about different types of customers you serve and develop them 
into different buckets if appropriate. Think through their needs, wants,
 and values at a deep and personal level. Use your imagination if you 
need to, or actually ask them.

Next, ask yourself: does your current marketing reflect the values, 
needs, wants of your customers? Take a look at your marketing to see if 
it does.

This one activity alone can help you stop thinking of yourself as a 
commodity, develop greater self-confidence in marketing & selling 
your business services/products, drive more sales, get customers to 
stick with you, and make them happier. I want you to really get the 
incredible service you provide with your business in the lives of your 
customers–even if (and especially if) you think you’re selling a 
commodity.

By offering concrete and valuable insights tailored to your 
prospects, you’ll skyrocket the effectiveness of your marketing, and 
you’ll feel better marketing it. However, even after exhaustive 
research, surveys, and thinking about it, you cannot find any value to 
what you market, then perhaps you need to think about marketing 
something else entirely which you feel better about selling. Feeling 
good about what you sell because you are genuinely enriching someone’s 
life is one of the most important factors in succeeding as an 
entrepreneur and being a successful marketer.

If you work with me, this will be the very first activity I’ll make 
you do. Even if I’ve run the marketing campaigns for my clients, I force
 them to think about this topic deeply because it helps them see their 
business in a different light and find more ways to serve them.

### Principle #3: Talk to Your Customers In Their Language

You’ll notice the concrete step above is to stop thinking about 
marketing from me-focused (that’s you and your business) to you-focused 
(all about the customer). This is in sharp contrast to institutional 
marketing that a lot of businesses do.

You’ve seen institutional marketing before. It is the kind of 
corporate marketing meant to build a “brand” or about “branding.” It’s 
also mostly meaningless and ineffective. It’s the kind of marketing that
 reaches you to say “we’re JD Power’s #1 brand” (*great, why should I care?*). Or “we’re part of the neighborhood” (*isn’t every bank? what’s special about you?*).
 Or any such generic piece of marketing that toots its own horn but 
actually has no value for the prospect or customer reading it. Like most
 real estate agent ads that just have a name, photo, and a phone number.

Ads like this can work for Coca Cola and other big name companies to 
remind the customer that they exist, but the rest of us must be more 
direct with our marketing. Direct does not mean abrasive or rude or 
intruding. It does mean getting to the point and demonstrating the value
 that the customer cares about. Great marketing that gets results 
(customers calling you) immediately is more direct. And when you need to
 bring in funds to keep the lights on in your business, this is the kind
 of marketing you need. It is also more respectful of your customers 
because it talks to them about their needs, not just about how great you
 are.

### Principle #4: Be Direct (Make an Offer)

Direct Marketing is you-focused (on the customer). It speaks the 
language of the customer first and foremost and promotes the business as
 a means of helping the customer fulfill his or her goals, needs, wants,
 and values.

Direct Marketing also makes a specific offer to your prospect. After 
attracting and showing that your business is completely aligned with 
your customer’s interests, you can specifically talk about a unique 
promotion. Maybe it’s a sale on mattresses for the next one month, or a 
time to think about premiums, or a new procedure at your clinic that you
 have a special discount on, or a new widget that your R&D just 
developed that’s in limited supply. You’re now selling something 
specific: a consultation, a call, a widget, a procedure, whatever. 
Specific is key.

Next, you ask for a response. You will no longer include just a phone
 number or website. Instead you will say “call me now to setup a 
consultation.” Or “click on this website, fill out the form and get this
 done.” When you ask for a response, you get to actually see how 
effective you were with this particular piece of marketing. If 100 
people respond in one area, but another piece of marketing brings in 200
 responses, you know that you can ditch the piece that got only 100 
responses. You will learn what kinds of responses you can create in 
various parts of the book.

Finally, you set a deadline or constraint to act by. Think about 
homework and essays from your school days. Many of us often only got 
around to getting something done when given a deadline. You realize on 
Sunday night that you have to get this paper done, or you fail the 
report. That was the marketing offer in that class: “Get in your essay 
by Monday or lose the chance to get the grade.” You must do the same. As
 a dentist, this can mean saying “accepting only 20 new patients” or 
“please respond by Friday if you want to schedule a consultation because
 quantities are limited.” This is an extra incentive to get people to 
act.

This is not manipulative in any way. When you respect yourself by 
putting deadlines to your offers, customers end up respecting you as 
well as someone who has standards in how they do business. Customers 
also appreciate the push to act on something that actually benefits 
them! (Remember, we talked about how it’s important to go from me-to-you
 mindset in marketing). Additionally, you know that you do not have 
unlimited resources to deal with every single prospect. You would need 
unlimited dollars, time, assets, and employees to do that. A timeline or
 some sort of limit is an acknowledgement of the fact that your time, 
money, assets, etc are limited and scarce and helps you and your 
customer organize it.

If you notice closely, this is exactly what a good salesperson does. 
He tells the customer how her life can benefit from the product/service 
he is offering, exactly what the offer is, and if she is interested in 
buying it now or later (and if later, then when)? This is also what 
makes marketing an extension of sales. When you follow the ideas above 
of Direct Marketing, it’ll be like sending in a sales person to a 
customer. You’ll have a much higher chance of getting their attention, 
action, and potential sale.

Note that sale does not mean trading dollars for your product or 
service. It can mean other things as well such as asking for more 
information. We will talk about that in the section on “Education”.

#### Activity

Look through your past marketing materials. Are they “you” or 
customer focused talking to them about their needs, desires, wants, 
goals, and values in the language of your customers? Are you making 
offers to them in your materials? Are you asking for them to take action
 within a specific time? Do you measure how effective your promotions 
are? How many people respond to them? Or do you measure at all?

Brainstorm how your marketing can look like once you make these changes.

Here is a handy checklist of questions you can refer to when creating your marketing materials going forward:

1.  Is your marketing focused on the things that your customer(s) care about?
2.  Have you made a specific offer to something in your business (a product, service, website, etc)
3.  Have you asked for a specific action by the prospect (call now, visit this site, schedule a consult, etc)
4.  Have you set a limit on the offer? This can be a time limit, quantity limit, etc.
5.  Are you measuring/tracking its effectiveness? (see next section)

### Principle #5: What Gets Measured Gets Improved

Using the ideas so far can dramatically increase sales for you and 
bring in business. You’ll also note that these ideas work regardless of 
the medium or tools you use. Whether it be online or offline, these 
principles work. Failure to use these principles in your marketing can 
make your efforts weak despite whatever cutting edge new hot social 
network you’re using to promote yourself.

Following the principles above have created millions of dollars in 
results. Compound the principles above with measurement and you’re going
 to far ahead of anyone else.

Consider that you start making specific offers in your marketing promotions and even measure its effectiveness.

Offer A gets 10 people to respond to you out of 1000 people you 
reached out to. That’s a 1% response rate. Let’s say that 10 people each
 buy $10 worth of goods and services from you. That means you’ll have 
made $100.

Offer B gets 20 people to respond to you out of 1000 people you 
reached out to. That’s a 2% response rate. They also each buy $10 worth 
of stuff. That means you’ll have made $200.

In effect, you doubled your revenues by making small changes in just 
your marketing. Does it cost any more to send that email, that flyer, 
that banner? No! All you changed was the marketing message on there and 
you doubled your revenues! Imagine how you can grow your business if you
 got better at this.

This is the power of good marketing. With very simple changes, you 
can double, triple, quadruple your revenue! Therefore, resolve to always
 measure how different messages are performing and if you can improve 
them. Resolve to measure how different places you put your ads on are 
performing as well. See if you can improve them.

All it requires is thinking about the value of your business 
differently, going from me-to-you focused with direct marketing, 
measuring the results, and educating customers over the long haul to 
succeed.

### Principle #6: Send Your Customer to School

This type of direct-response marketing is not just useful in the 
short-term, but also in the long term as you make specific targeted 
offers, or educate them over the long haul.

Many of you might sell something more complex, and it isn’t well 
suited for an order in a limited time. In which case, you need to spend 
more time educating them and showing them how their dreams, goals, 
values, wants, and needs aligns with what you’re offering. Customers 
really need to appreciate the intricacies before they get the value of 
what you’re offering them. Therefore, your marketing can be focused on 
educating them first, instead of directly selling them your product or 
service.

You can make the direct-response marketing offer about sending them, 
giving them, enrolling them, in some educational material that can be 
useful to them right away. This can be a book, audio program, webinar, 
seminar, etc.

Over the long run, dedicating yourself to educating your customers 
also makes you the authority in their eyes. We trust, respect, and 
revere great teachers who’ve made a positive difference in our lives. If
 you have the ability to, sit down and develop a curriculum to help 
educate customers about your domain of expertise/what you sell. You 
definitely know more about it than them. And people tend to buy more 
frequently from people they trust, respect, value, and revere.

Don’t just think about educating them in one way. Find different ways of doing it.

**Example**: Many financial planners invite people into 
their office for a “free consultation” but don’t realize how 
nerve-wracking it is for a stranger to bare their entire financial 
situation in front of a stranger (even if they’re getting it for 
“free”). How much more effective would it be if he first prepared them 
with a great short educational book, perhaps an audio recording, or even
 a few short videos?

This is also a great way to beat the “manipulative” image that 
marketing and advertising often have. Far too many business owners 
secretly feel that all this is somewhat sleazy. Yet, when you focus on 
enhancing the life of your future customer with great information, you 
go from becoming a sleazy marketer, to a really valuable consultant in 
their life. This is how you go from being in a commodity business to 
becoming a truster advisor to your customers — becoming the preeminent 
or the only choice for your customers.

It is a longer path to prosperity, but is a lot more sustainable and 
rewarding, and you will create customers for a lifetime. In fact, that 
is the primary reason I’ve written this book. I want to work with 
business owners and startup founders that get the principles and 
philosophy I follow. I’ve worked with many that don’t and spent a lot of
 time and effort educating them, but sometimes to no avail. With this 
book, I can serve someone like you by educating you and demonstrating 
the results that are possible. At the same time, when you choose to 
engage with me for more work (or even a recommendation or emailing in a 
question), you are likely to see me as your ally. It also helps me 
qualify the people who get my ideas and those who don’t, so I can choose
 to not work with them.

Indeed, writing a book can be one of simplest pieces of education and credibility markers that can help you get customers.

This commitment to educate your customer will open you up to other 
businesses/services that can also serve your customers. Recommend 
complimentary and supplementary products and services that can enrich 
your customers. Or better yet, tie up with these other businesses and 
actively share in their revenues based on your recommendations. Not only
 will this create new revenue channels for you, but also increase the 
trust and respect customers feel about you. (You’ll learn more about 
this idea in the “New Offers” and “New Markets” section).

Take care that you do not come across as insulting to your customer 
when you educate them. You may know a lot more about your specific 
industry, product or service than them, but deliver your knowledge in a 
friendly supportive way. This also means taking a customer-focused 
approach to educating them. Always explain why they should care about 
what you’re teaching them. And let your own personal story and history 
shine through in this. People like to connect with you as a person. They
 want to feel that they’re dealing with a real human being (yes, even in
 technology or heavy industrial companies). By adding a splash of 
humanity, you once again help set your business apart from everyone else
 and go from being a commodity to a real live unique business worth 
buying from.

#### Activity

What are you doing to educate your customers right now? Can you 
better educate your customers? What would that look like? What mediums 
can you use to get it to them before they even come to you? Do you think
 you can convert some of the customers you lost this way?

Think of a syllabus or curriculum that you’d like to take your 
customers through. Brainstorm the best way of delivering this 
information (audio course, online course, a book, a pamphlet, a 
seminar?)

If you’re looking to become a trusted educator of the product or 
service you’re selling, there are also many people who sell pre-packaged
 kits that you can label with your own business’s name to market to your
 customers. If you’re looking for recommendations, contact me [here](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/) with details about your business, industry, and what you’re looking 
for. I likely can recommend you some resource where you can find the 
help you need.

### Principle #7: Money Math

Don’t throw your money away on things that don’t work, but at the 
same time, don’t be stingy in spending money on getting customers. There
 is an easy way to decide on how much to to spend to get your prospects 
to become customers.

Find out how much you make on average from each lead. So if out of 10
 leads, 1 becomes a customer and brings in 100100 that means that for 
every prospect you engage with, you stand to make $10. Next, find out 
how much it costs you to get a customer. Once again, say you spent $50 
to reach out to 10 leads from which 1 became a customer, you spent $5. 
That means you net $5 from every prospect you reach out to. Do this math
 for the lifetime of your average customer.

This number now becomes what you use to make spending decisions for marketing.

In the case above, you can technically afford to spend an additional 
$4.99 (or a total of $9.99 per lead) to get that customer and make a 
profit (Admittedly $0.01 is not much of a profit, so you will have your 
own threshold that makes sense to you for your cash flow).

Hopefully, the money you make per lead exceeds the money you spend.

You can do a few things from this point:

1.  You can increase the amount you spend per lead. This will 
    increase the number of leads who become buying customers (since you’re 
    giving them more attention, information, services, etc). Remember, if 
    there is a gap between what you get and what you spend, you can afford 
    to spend more.
2.  You can increase how much money you get from a 
    lead. This can happen through up-selling, cross-selling, and creating or
     promoting new products and services that will be valuable to your 
    customer. This will widen the gap you get from how much you get per lead
     and how much you spend per lead. Indeed, for most businesses that I’ve 
    dealt with, most of the money is made after the first sale. For example,
     you can aim to make $30 per customer over 3 months instead of just a 
    one-time sale of $10 for example. So you can afford to let the first 
    sale be at break-even or even at a loss if needed because you will gain 
    $20 from it compared to the $10 otherwise.
3.  You can decide on all
     the ineffective things that are weighing you down. We saw the power of 
    making small changes to ads that can yield a big result above, so I 
    won’t go into that. You might be able to make these ads a lot more 
    effective and therefore keep your expenses as they are but increase 
    revenues. But you can also decide to cut out the wrong things to spend 
    on. This can mean cutting out an advertising channel that doesn’t make 
    you anything for example.

In general, the only marketing math you really have to do is figure 
out how much you make per lead, and how much you spend per lead. Find 
ways to make more per lead, find ways to increase the effectiveness of 
what you spend (and remove the deadweight). And realize that you can 
afford to spend a lot more to get the really interested prospects to the
 finish line and get them into paying customers since over their 
lifetime, you will make a lot more money from the customer. Of course 
the decisions you make depend on your cash-flow as well. So do the best 
you can with your cash-flow.

In general, spend as much as you can to get a customer through the 
door, increase the lifetime value of the customer, increase the 
effectiveness of the marketing expenses or drop it if it remains 
ineffective. We will spend the next section figuring out all the ways to
 optimize this.

---

Phew! You’re all done with the Principles of Marketing. Did you find 
ideas that worked for you? What principles were you ignoring or breaking
 and what do you want to do now that you know more? What is still pretty
 unclear?

Leave a comment below!

## Strategies

### #1: Market, Message, Medium — in that order

Credit goes to the amazing Dan Kennedy for this idea. Many people 
think marketing is the medium and the message. They think marketing is 
“advertising” or just a promotion. They think it’s about the blimp 
flying above the stadium. They think Yellow Pages, Facebook, Google, 
billboards, TV, etc. Or maybe about clever of funny ads. But these are 
all different mediums or messages. This is not the right place to start.
 It’s much easier to start with the customer (the market).

It always starts with the market. We talked about this before, where 
you become customer-focused. You must get to know their goals, dreams, 
wants and needs. The better you get to know the inner life of the 
customer, the better you’ll get. This will lend itself to easily writing
 a message that will resonate with them. And if you have truly 
understood what the customer is all about, you will also have an 
instinctual knowledge about the media they consume. Do they read the 
newspaper or are they getting their news from the Internet? If from the 
Internet, is it from social media or on news sites? What events do they 
attend, where do you they shop? These ideas go a long way towards 
helping you pick the medium.

Instead of starting with medium (“We’re going to radio ads now!”), 
you start with a more natural point (“Who is my customer? What are they 
like?”). This in turn helps you create the right message for them. By 
that time, you have an almost instinctual idea of what medium to use to 
promote this message to the right market.

Earlier in the book, I had given the example of the dentist who 
targeted executives in her commercial area. Many people wonder how to do
 that. There are many companies that will do a blast of messages to 
everyone indiscriminately. You can do something smarter than that.

First, you should look at your existing customer base and send them 
messages. They are significantly more likely to read and react to your 
messages since they are used to working with you. Do not overlook this 
part. You absolutely must be in contact with your existing or past 
customers constantly so that they remember the service you’ve rendered 
to them and tell them about new things you can offer. I’ve seen far too 
many companies take on a client and then forget about them once a 
transaction has taken place. Because they’ve bought from you before, 
there is likely to be familiarity with you. They are therefore 
significantly more likely to buy from you again. You’ve got the “market”
 part figured out.

Make it a point to have a day every week/month/quarter where you send
 them a message thanking them for their past/current business, and also 
presenting them with a new offer. This one step alone can bring in a 
flood of new business. There will be a lot less friction in selling to 
them since they’ve bought before from you.

But if you must find new customers, consider using existing lists. 
Simple go on the Internet and search for your target customer type + 
location + “list broker.” For example, you can search for “Business 
executives Tulsa list broker.” You will soon encounter a broker whose 
job it is to keep in touch with someone who keeps an up-to-date list of 
business executives in Tulsa. You will get their phone numbers, email 
addresses, mailing addresses at the office. Now you have the information
 you need to create a campaign for them.

But don’t lead with this step. First, start with market, then 
message, then medium. You will think of new messages and offers to 
different markets. You will save a lot of time and money. You will 
increase the profitability of each piece of marketing, drive down costs,
 and resonate more deeply with your customers.

### #2: Referrals: The Fastest, Cheapest, Easiest Way to Grow

The cheapest and most effective medium to grow your business is 
through referrals from your existing customers. Creating a system of 
referrals is one of the easiest things you absolutely have to start 
doing to grow your business. Many businesses appreciate referrals, but 
you need to create a system around this. Don’t let it happen by chance. 
So, what are the elements of a great referral system?

First, you must create some collateral. This can be a card, a magnet,
 a website link, whatever you think will appeal to your customers. Next,
 you must think of an offer for a referral. You want the person making 
the referral to look like a hero. This means exclusive pricing, a 
special offer they can’t find anyone else. So that when your customer 
refers your business to their friends/colleagues/family, they will be 
giving something truly valuable that won’t be found normally by a cold 
prospect reaching you.

Create a script that you say out loud every time you know you’ve 
created a great customer experience. You must make it easy for your 
customer to refer your business to their friends, family, colleagues, 
associates, etc. Prime their mind with exact ideas on where they can get
 this. You can either give them an incentive by offering them discounts 
in the future or additional perks, or you can offer additional benefits 
to the new customers they bring in for you. Finally, find a way to thank
 the person who makes the referral.

### Case Study

A
 dental practice implemented a referral system where customers bring in 
new patients to the dentist. The customers bringing in the most 
referrals were put up on the “Golden Smile” Board in the office that was
 visible in the waiting room. This type of recognition was a powerful 
incentive to keep growing the number of referrals. At the same time, it 
made other patients curious as they waited for their appointment and 
also wanted to learn about how they can join the program. This dentist 
was successfully able to grow his practice primarily through this 
system.

#### Activity

Do you have a referral system in your business? Do you make it easy 
for your customers to refer you to other prospects? Do you give them 
ideas on who they can contact? Do you think of special offers to compel 
them to refer you to others? Do you offer something compelling to the 
prospect who is being referred? Do you have a way of recognizing and 
thanking the person who brought in the new customer?

Take the time and design this referral system today. Out of all the 
other strategies discussed here, this is the easiest, simplest, and 
fastest to implement and can yield you results right away. Go into your 
client list and let them know you want more customers just like them. 
Give them an offer and let them bring you new customers. Put it on a 
card, or some other memorabilia so they know exactly what action to take
 once they’re done doing business with you.

If nothing else, ask your customers to systematically leave you a 
review on Google, Yelp, or your related business directory. Prospects 
that want to do business with you often look at the number of reviews as
 well as the detail of the reviews to make a decision to engage with 
you. You absolutely must ask after each transaction is complete for 
their feedback and solicit their review because it helps refer more 
customers to you. Collect these reviews and use them as testimonials. 
This kind of social proof can be an extremely powerful.

### Case Study

A local medical practice skyrocketed their customer base and search 
position (ranking at the top of the search results) by simply being the 
most reviewed practice in the city. More reviews, and longer reviews 
meant this place was popular, and people trusted it. The doctor would 
literally hand a card with instructions on where to leave reviews at the
 end of a satisfied patient visit. She also gave many patients a card 
asking for specific referrals as well. And that’s really the last piece 
of the puzzle — making it very easy for the customer to remember the 
commitment they’ve made to you and make it easy to share.

### Case Study

I worked with a popular wedding photographer who does a variety of 
great ways to draw referral business. When he signs on a client, he 
tells them that “I grow my business through referrals. I’d like to ask 
you that if you know of other couples getting married, please let them 
come to me. As a gesture of goodwill, I will do a custom canvas 
portrait printed for you.” Once the wedding is done, he works with the 
couple to select 2-3 great photos. If the guest list is local, he 
offers to send these guests a picture on his dime as a memento from the
 wedding with a note from the couple, and also includes a special offer
 for people to come into his studio for family portraits, corporate 
photography, and other events. Last time I checked, he’s booked nearly 
every week of the year with his calendar extending 2-3 years in 
advance.

That’s the power of a great referral system. Make one today. Your 
business will thank you. It doesn’t have to be expensive or hard. 
Recently, at a Dental Conference, I met close to 7 vendors who all sell a
 ‘referral’ system for $300-$600/month. It’s basically a software that 
does the above things for you. You are likely to get a better rate when 
you, as a human, asks them directly for it as opposed to some automated 
marketing message (although an automated message can certainly become 
important as you scale your business).

On the note of referral, I wanted to seek your referral for this book
 and my services as well. Here’s what I’d like to request. I hope you’re
 seeing how implementing even some of these ideas can 2x, 5x, 10x your 
sales. If you believe others can benefit from this, would you:

1.  Share copies of this book for other business owners or employees who can learn from this.
2.  Refer my consulting or speaking services to an organization or person who can benefit from it.

Can you think of other business owners in your friend circle who can 
benefit from this book? How about vendors you deal with? How about your 
customers themselves? Indeed, how about a niece of nephew that is 
thinking to learn about marketing but has a very fuzzy idea about it? Or
 perhaps employees in your own company who can start the work of 
realigning their efforts with enduring and true principles of marketing.

In the next section, you will learn about something more powerful than money to connect with your audience.

### #3: The Pen is Mightier than the Dollar

Great copywriting can be a powerful lever! This is the actual content
 or message of the marketing you create. You already saw how great 
marketing for startups and small business is very far away from general 
“branding” type ads. Copywriting therefore becomes a chance to grab the 
attention of the people who are our prospects, and then telling them 
what they want to hear.

It begins with great research and really knowing how your product or 
service fits in the life of your customer. Copywriting is then a matter 
of writing that out using the language that your customer likes.

It starts with a great headline. A great headline alone in your 
promotional campaigns (or email subject lines) can change conversions 
2x, 3x, 10x! This is the initial teaser that gets the attention of your 
prospect. A small change in the order of words can make a big 
difference. So experiment with this. Write something that grabs the 
attention of your customer in a way that is in line with your product or
 service. Stay away from bait. An attractive person with big words that 
say “SEX” can definitely get attention, but isn’t appropriate (unless 
that’s what you’re selling). Stick with something that’s about your 
business and how it relates to your customer.

Be on the lookout for great headlines everywhere you go. There’s a 
reason that magazine stands at check-out counters still exist. Those 
flashy headlines filled with celebrity gossip work and get their target 
market to pick up the magazine and buy it. Perhaps there are other 
captivating things in your own market.

Next, describe what people have to gain from using your product or 
service. People don’t appreciate something about you unless you tell 
them. A great restaurant spells out all the ingredients that go into it.
 The chef’s journey. All the ingredients etc. Really make it vivid for 
them so that they can see, feel, hear, and sense what their life will be
 like after having done business with you.

Yes, this is possible even with B2B marketing. Yes, even if it’s just
 machinery. You are ultimately selling to a human. This isn’t about 
using sleaze and using language like the next best fiction bestseller. 
Rather, it is about using the customer’s language and really explaining 
what they have to gain. Use testimonials, case studies, a story of 
someone else and what they got from using your product. Use statistics 
and graphs and charts as appropriate. All of this should aim to answer 
one question: So what? Make it always relevant to the prospect!

It is easy to get carried away and obsessed with your own service. So
 take a step back once in a while and read it out loud to see if it’s 
making sense. Better yet, give it a customer to read. Test it out with a
 few prospects and see how they respond.

Include objections in your longer messages! Yes, this is important. 
Saying that your product is the best without discussing the downsides 
rings the alarm bell in people’s minds. Be honest and admit where you 
aren’t perfect, and explain what your counter-response to that is. Don’t
 be insecure about this. If anything, it makes you look very secure when
 you do this.

At the very end, make an offer (see section on making an offer), and 
ask for the prospect to take an action. It can just be opting in to get 
the free educational content you’ve provided, or straight up buy from 
you.

If you aim to do just this, you will be leagues ahead of most of your
 competitors. Most people do not think through these issues carefully 
enough. They are much happier tooting their own horn and talking about 
how great they are. Do this even with your business cards. Find ways to 
summarize your core value in a few short sentences. You will learn how 
to do this especially on the section “USP – Unique Selling Proposition.”

Great copywriters have turned around entire businesses. Great copy 
can make a huge difference to your business. I would recommend hiring a 
copywriter to write your ads if you have a lot of it to do and you can’t
 seem to crack it. This can absolutely be one of the most important 
pieces when it comes to marketing.

I implement all the Principles and Strategies we talk about in this 
book, but the primary concrete output that I do for my clients is copy 
that can be used to execute on all these ideas. A good effective 
copywriter should be able to understand these Principles and Strategies 
you’re trying to execute on before they produce copy for you. Much like 
the tip of an iceberg, this copy produced should be based on a much 
larger foundation of everything else discussed here.

### #4: Your Unique Selling Proposition is what moves Customers

Your USP or Unique Selling Proposition is the core reason why a 
customer should care about buying from you or working for you. 
Unfortunately, far too many business owners believe they have nothing 
unique to offer, or have a hard time articulating that into words.

Consider most real estate agents. What exactly sets one apart from 
the other, except for access to listings? What sets apart dentists? How 
about accountants, chiropractors? Unfortunately, other than location, 
there’s not much else going for many of them.

Getting the right USP can help you outsmart your competition. It can 
become a strategy that guides your thinking. It also vastly simplifies 
your life. Your USP cuts through the clutter and gets the attention of 
the customer. It makes it easy to develop new offers to give your 
customers. This is not necessarily about coming up with a trademark new 
product or proprietary new process or technology. Often times, it can 
just be in how you configure it to be.

It always starts with the customer. You have to be unique in their 
eyes in a way that gets their attention. So what makes you unique to 
your customers and prospects?

Look at your product or service. Think through on what their features
 are. Next, think about their benefits. Benefits are very different than
 features. A feature might be “we’re open 24/7”, a benefit might be 
“because we’re open 24/7, if your machinery breaks down and production 
comes to a halt, we will troubleshoot and fix things for you right 
away.” Benefits connect with the higher needs, wants, goals, and values 
of the customer. You can start off by grabbing a piece of paper and 
drawing a column in the middle. On the left, write out all the features 
of what you offer. On the right hand, think deeply about the benefits to
 your customer. If you have different types of a customer, make 
different columns to describe the benefit to those customers. Be 
exhaustive, write out everything. You might be shocked to discover what 
you learn. You might learn that your business is not such a commodity as
 you thought it was. That there is indeed something unique about you.

If you’re still stuck, think through on 3 categories: cheap, fast, or
 quality. You can have 2 out of the 3 in your business, not all 3 
usually. Which 2 do you offer? You might discover your core message and 
business has been wrong all along. A chiropractor offered adjustments 
for cheap. You could book an appointment and see him the next day and 
pay him a low amount. But he did not understand that customers were 
looking for more than just an adjustment once in a while. They wanted 
more. He was hesitant to talk to them about it, and as a result, his 
practice was not taking off. He assumed that a patient would figure it 
out themselves. They didn’t. Once he understand that he wanted to 
compete on quality and price, he changed tactics. He spent more time 
with patients and educated them on the long term benefits of working 
with him. This steadily helped him grow his practice.

It might help you to think about some of the competition in your 
market and what feature and benefit set do they offer. Seeing the 
contrast will help you drive towards a Unique Selling Proposition.

While what you do is very important, what you don’t do is just as 
important. What don’t you do? This can be a very powerful source of 
being unique. For example, you don’t charge your customers until the 
order is fully finished. Or perhaps you don’t outsource your support 
staff to Asia. Maybe you don’t recommend a product that your competitors
 do–because you know it breaks down in 12 months. You take a hit in 
profit by doing it in the short term, but you get happier customers in 
the process. In preparing your feature and benefit list, spend time 
thinking about all the things you don’t do.

Finally, you might not have considered it, but find a way to make it 
risk free for your clients to work with you. Reversing the risk for the 
customer can be an incredible differentiator. Think about Dominoes Pizza
 who made their business empire in service of a simple way of removing 
risk for the customer: “30 minutes or free.” This removes the risk for a
 customer to order from Dominoes because they know what to expect.

Businesses often are afraid of offering a risk protection for the 
customer. But they underestimate exactly the fear, hesitation, and 
anxiety people have in trying something new or doing business with a 
stranger. People want even adventure while knowing the constraints of 
what they enjoy. Just think of the tremendous rise of travel tour 
packages that promise adventure, but not go too off the beaten path. 
Perhaps you think your customer is different. They’re mostly not.

Offer money back guarantees, offer performance based fees, give them 
long trial periods, take on the risk for your customer. Be generous in 
your risk protection for your customer. You think you will be taken 
advantage off. But for most businesses I’ve studied or consulted with, 
this risk reversal only increases sales, and returns/refunds are fairly 
minimal compared to the rise in sales.

Explain your USP consistently, and this will help you stand out, and 
give customers a reason to act upon your offer (going back to the direct
 response aspect of all your marketing now).

Let me offer my own unique selling proposition as an example as well.

Most people go to agencies for their marketing needs. They go find 
“someone creative” to whip up an ad. Agencies are compensated by you but
 they also make a percentage of the media spend you do. On the other 
hand, a freelancer creative is only focused on her piece of the puzzle, 
without seeing the bigger picture or strategy.

Unlike them, I believe in sitting on your side of the table. I work 
with timeless principles, not the latest hottest technique or fad 
bestseller. I only deal with entrepreneurs or business owners directly. I
 help companies fix their marketing, discover new channels of 
distribution to bring in new sources of revenues. I also train people in
 sales. And I charge only based on the value I provide, not a fixed 
cookie-cutter price, take-it-or-leave-it. I think this is not in 
integrity with the needs of different businesses of different scope and 
size.

To most businesses, this is very compelling story. They’re risking 
little, and have a huge upside. This kind of win-win partnership is what
 sets me apart from a large number of consultants you can hire.

**Activity**: Make finding your USP a core part of your 
marketing. Make a list of your features and benefits from the eyes of 
your customers. Find the edges. The things that set you apart from your 
competitors. Also focus on things that you don’t do when making this 
list. Finally, find a way of reversing the risk for your customers in 
doing business with you. The list that emerges will be a powerful tool 
to help you make new offers and supercharge your marketing and sales 
efforts.

In the next section, we will learn about how simple databases can make you a savvier marketer.

### #5: Databases for fun and profit

This is not going to be a technical discussion. This is more about a mindset and simple tactic to bolster your revenues.

Do you have your prospects, customers, sitting in a database 
separately? Do you collect their information at all? Often times, you 
might need to give them an incentive to do this, but you should do this 
to continue to provide greater value to them.

Many businesses keep databases on their customers in order to fulfill
 orders, remind them about appointments to your practice, or do other 
routine follow-up work. The rest of the time, this information is never 
linked. The dollars and cents are on their own cash flow and income 
statement separated from the value of each customers.

Yet, if you take the time to maintain a database of customers who you
 interact with, what they’ve spent with you, their needs and desires, 
and other personal notes, you can be head and shoulders above the rest 
of your competitors. Figure out which customers are coming in, how 
frequently they’re coming in, and how much they’re spending each time.

You might find trends that you didn’t consider before that can help you shift your business to make it a lot more profitable.

### Case Study

I worked with a company to market and sell logistics services. Based on
 the territory, there was a variety of companies. From textiles to 
cosmetics, technology and manufacturing. Doing some number crunching, we
 found out that technology companies were disproportionately more 
profitable. They needed overnight services more frequently, they tended 
to insure their packages against any damages, and had high margins in 
their product itself. I then went on to target only technology companies
 and grew the effectiveness by 130% in that one area. Manufacturing 
companies used the slowest means of transport (least profitable), and 
packages were heavy and bulky, and tended to damage other packages. 
Textiles and cosmetics were fairly low volume. Yet, the company used to 
spend an equal amount of time, money, and effort targeting companies 
from all industries before I looked at the database and found trends 
that made a difference.

**Activity** What trends can you find in your business? 
Are some customers bringing in the most amount of money? Can you serve 
them better? Can you find more of those customers somewhere? Can you ask
 your most profitable customers for referrals? Can you dig into their 
lives and understand what they’re looking for so you can make your 
messages more laser focused? Doing this can bring in better customers 
into your business, and keep your efforts focused on wildly profitable 
areas.

And this applies to prospects as well! Do you collect their 
information and send them relevant marketing offers, and educational 
content? You never know but that customer might just discover that over 
time, they really need your product or service. Perhaps they grow more 
educated in the space, perhaps they’re dissatisfied with their current 
vendor. By continuing to message them, you remind them that you exist, 
that you’re there to help them meet their needs, and you have their best
 interests at heart.

Some of my clients have been hesitant to do this. They don’t want to 
appear like they’re spamming them with emails or useless flyers. 
However, if you’re customer-focused, creating messages by being 
intensely focused on the customer, and shape it with a unique selling 
proposition, your offer will rarely be seen as an intrusion. This is 
especially the case when you lead with education and then ask for an 
order.

Prospects and customers reward this level of nurturing, this level of
 targeted and specific offers that gets to the heart of their deepest 
needs wants desires and goals. That’s why the Principles part of this 
book is so important. You cannot skip over them.

Imagine if you got a newsletter each month from a financial advisor 
that you met with once (but never did business with because it was too 
big and scary to do) and she kept on sharing extremely useful 
information that helps you make better decisions yourself. When she 
extends an offer for a business owner like you specifically, you will 
not see this as an intrusion, but actually greatly welcome this offer.

But this happened because she kept a database of prospects as well as
 current customers. She took detailed notes on what they were all like, 
and used that information to create offers that strike a chord. 
Sometimes, she even puts on a sticky note or gets her assistant to put a
 sticky note about something you mentioned in your last meeting with her
 (e.g. “I know your son is just about to head to college, so I think 
you’ll like this issue of my newsletter especially about how to manage 
finances with a student in college”).

This can be a great way of reactivating customers or prospects you’ve
 engaged with in the past. In addition, you might find other things to 
upsell them based on what they’ve bought from you in the past.

On that note, I’d like to ask you to consider joining my list. I send
 useful articles that remain ever-fresh and useful for the entrepreneur 
and business owner to be more effective at running his business. I will 
work to deliver value, and I hope this will also be another factor to 
help you consider hiring me to consult for your business, or come in to 
talk with your employees or other organizations that you work with. 
Please sign up for my email list at dtank.co. I send out 2-3 emails a 
month at most with thoughtful medium sized articles.

### #6: New Offers

If you’ve created a USP and have created a current database, coming 
up with new offers should be straightforward. Especially if you focus on
 educating customers constantly.

If you’re not in the business of creating new offers and marketing 
promotions on a regular basis, your first new offer can be calls to 
receive your education. This can become a constant promotion. This is a 
simple low cost opt-in that interested customers will gladly sign up 
for. Get their contact information and send them offers and marketing 
educational material on a regular basis.

Always find ways to personalize this. Even in impersonal highly 
technical fields, people are generally people. Tell a compelling story 
if you can. Or stick with technical jargon if needed.

You can also create new offers based on the customer type. For 
example, as a dentist you can create an offer just for executives in the
 area (perhaps lunchtime specials where professionals can come in and 
get work done), and then another one for just families (more weekend 
appointments). You don’t have to advertise the same prices for both or 
the same terms. Once again, think about your market first, and the 
message will come to you easily.

You can do different offers based on seasons or big events. Christmas
 time usually has the most sales. But you can find different offers 
based on dates relevant to the customer. Are there important days in 
your industry that your customers know about? You can create offers 
based on your own personal moments. If you’ve kept a database (as 
discussed earlier) and spent time educating your customers, your 
prospects have some personal rapport with you. Offer them a birthday 
offer (your birthday or their–ideally both). Once you start thinking, 
there is no end to the kinds of offers you can imagine and try out.

Talk about how you can upsell more things, find more products and 
services to get to them. And for prospects who have never bought from 
you, give them something (even a loss leader) to get them in the door 
and walk them through the ladder of steadily increasing things to buy 
from you. This means always looking out for things to sell them.

This can also be a great way of re-activating customers who’ve 
stopped buying from you. It is a shot of relevance that can connect with
 your customers.

This could also mean re-configuring elements of your product and 
services to more “bite sized” chunks that they can buy into. This was a 
big revelation for a lot of software companies. Whereas before, software
 companies asked for a flat fee for their software, more and more we are
 seeing monthly subscription prices at a much lower price than a 1 time 
annual subscription fee. This lower risk offer is a lot more powerful in
 making a customer try the software out. Can you think of ways to give 
your product or service at different levels for different customers? Can
 you give a more basic version of your product or service? A more 
premium version? Make it easy for them to engage with you.

In my business, my initial offer is just this book. It is not a big 
commitment to get this and go through this book. Next, I offer readers 
like you a consultation. I work hard to blow people away in this 
consultation. Even if they don’t choose to retain me for longer 
engagements (and we have to be well aligned in the first place to do 
it), they will at least have a positive experience in working with me. 
Those who retain me longer then get requests to recommend me to others. 
At every stage, I am working hard, delivering results, and incrementally
 asking for more as well. This way, I try to build progressively win-win
 relationships where both parties are getting richer.

You can grow your business risk free by working with me. You’re 
already reading the book, now you can choose to make it come alive in 
your business by contacting me. There is no obligation when we do an 
initial conversation. [Contact me today](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/) to setup a time and talk.

Work to find ways to continuously add greater value and contribution 
to your customer. It might not even mean selling your products or 
services, but referring other complimentary businesses and their 
catalogs to them.

Increase number of clients, increase average sale by client, increase number of times people buy from you again.

---

So far we’ve been looking at just one dimension of growth — your 
customers. But what if you could branch out and geometrically grow 
things up? Learn more in the next section.

### #7: New Markets

This can be an exciting new way of growing your business. You can 
re-purpose a lot of your old marketing materials and explore new markets
 altogether. You may need to customize it based on the unique 
variability of the new market, but it is certainly possible.

Think of new geographies, new demographics, new types of people who 
can benefit from your product and service. Just like before, find a list
 of people who match these variables and send them your offer. This 
process can even be accelerated if you have a business associate who 
already serves a complimentary product or service in the new market you 
want to enter. Offer to piggy-back on his customer or prospects database
 on a commission basis or a percentage of sale basis. This is to ensure 
that you get a trusted recommendation from someone the end customer 
trusts. If that’s not possible, you can still send in your offer with an
 existing channel. At least there is a higher likelihood that the 
message will get opened and read.

You could start off with the best materials you have and keep refining it.

In my business, finding new channels like this has been one of the 
fastest ways to help my clients grow. And people are truly appreciate 
when you reach out to them to discuss an opportunity to do business 
together. Whereas others want to be vendors, you are engaging with these
 other businesses as an equal, as someone that enhances the lives of 
their customers. Be bold and reach out to these companies and you will 
be surprised at how quickly and how profitable these relationships can 
become!

The best way to make these relationships work is to assure them that 
your businesses are non-competitive. Take care of doing all the 
marketing work for them. Trust them, let them take a lot of the front 
end profit if you like since you realize you can make a lot more after 
the first sale goes through. Let them even take the order so there is 
more trust.

### Case Study

I worked with a software company that sold highly specialized software 
to schools. It had gotten to 24-30 schools by itself through its own 
direct selling efforts. By finding just 2 other complimentary companies 
that would benefit from promoting this software to its customer base, 
we were able to get this software to 1,600 schools in the span of 4 
months. For fractionally more in commissions, these companies even took 
care of selling and servicing the software issues leaving us with 
little to do except collect commissions.

This requires no technical knowledge. You don’t need to know SEO, 
Adwords, or anything like that. Finding great partners to work with can 
exponential help you grow your business.

A great way to start is to ask your existing customers what are 
things they buy before, during, and after they buy from you. What do 
they buy instead of you (whenever that does happen). All of these can be
 great complimentary businesses to partner up with to cross-sell or form
 some sort of joint venture that can help you both sell to each other’s 
customers.

Alternatively, find a listing agency in your area. Search for one 
online and contact them to help you pick lists that will work best. They
 are incentivized to get and keep your business by giving you the best 
lists possible to get your message in front of the right customers. You 
can splice and dice lists based on geography (just local ones), 
demographics (age, marital status, income level, etc), and even buying 
patterns (dog food lovers, contributors to certain non-profits, etc). 
You will be shocked at the type of lists you can use to get to new 
customer segments you hadn’t even dreamed of. Based on your selections, 
you can mail them, call them, email them, etc. These agencies will help 
you find the right people.

Spend the time thinking through the Market –> Message first before you find the actual list you can advertise to.

### #8: Different Strokes for Different Folks

You should break down your customers into different types. You 
already do this unconsciously with your social circle. Some people are 
good to grab a drink with. Some are close friends with whom you share 
everything. Some are work colleagues, or just acquaintances. You deal 
with all of them differently. You share different things with different 
people. You speak their language when you connect with them.

Don’t fall into the trap into thinking that “everyone” can be your 
customer. The more specific you can get, the easier chance you have to 
speak their language, reach them, and get them to become your customer. 
Be specific, niche it down. Always. In fact, if you’re having a hard 
time getting or growing your customer base, you might just be aiming too
 broadly. Instead, pick a narrower market.

In the same way, creating different lists of people who buy or may 
buy from you can help you do more targeted marketing. What kinds of 
offers you make to a segment of doctors is very different than how you’d
 talk to a group of teachers. This type of granular segmentation can 
really help you not only market better to them (think about specific 
messages and specific mediums to reach them), but genuinely develop 
closer relationships with them.

Relationships become everything when it comes time to make the sale 
and keep the customer buying from you–seeing you as a trusted advisor.

This extends after the sale has been made. Stay in touch with the 
customer after they’ve made the purchase. Make them feel good. A lot of 
people send birthday cards and holiday cards to their customers. This is
 great, but only the first step. Send them materials letting them know 
that their portfolio is doing great. Send your patients case studies of 
how happy people are when they get a certain procedure done. Call them, 
checking in on them. This reduces buyers regret, or the fear that they 
missed out on making a better decision. Offer your best deals to your 
existing customers first. It is much easier to keep an existing customer
 than to get a new one. So instead of a new hot campaign to pull in new 
customers, it might just be a lot easier to get existing customers to 
revisit you. This is also a great way to get their referrals (see 
above).

---

All these strategies are great, but they all fall apart when you get 
face to face with a customer, or worse–after you make the sale! In the 
next page, we’ll learn about 2 more super strategies that can make you 
sell more and feel good in the process.

### #9: Holding a Conversation aka Selling!

All this marketing is great, but people often freeze up at the point 
of sales. Unfortunately, selling is viewed negatively in our society. A 
“lowly” salesperson is made to wait, is insulted, and is basically 
considered to be at the bottom of the pyramid. This is ironic since 
nothing can happen in a business until the sale is made.

All your marketing can fall apart if you fail at the selling portion.
 If you’re selling anything that requires some human interaction, you 
must get the sales part down. Nothing happens in a business until a sale
 is made.

First, all of this effort you’re putting into marketing a lot smarter
 will help you with sales. You will get customers who are already 
engaged and hopefully educated before they come to buy from you. This is
 a dramatic change compared to how sales are usually done in 
organizations.

I’ve worked on and worked with many startups which are really well 
funded with millions of dollars, but have salespeople making cold phone 
calls trying to get appointments right away. What a tremendous waste of 
money and time! It is a sure fire way to burn through all the cash 
you’ve received. Not to mention how discouraging this is. Despite what 
people say, getting rejected a thousand times feels awful. Some can push
 past it, but most can’t. No wonder that after the US Military, sales 
organizations employ the most number of motivational speakers.

Yes, this applies even to companies where face-to-face selling is 
paramount. Even they can benefit from having sent highly targeted 
educational or marketing materials with strong calls to actions on 
offers. This makes the salesperson a welcome guest to their office.

You won’t need motivation to sell. Because the role of (good) 
marketing is to pre-sell qualified prospects about your products and 
services so that when they come to you you can have a better 
conversation and convert them into paying customers. This also changes 
the power dynamic.

Whereas before, when a cold call as a salesperson gives all the power
 to the customer, with good marketing you can nurture a prospect until 
they’re ready to buy from you. When they come to you, they approach you 
with greater respect and view you as someone who sits on their side of 
the table. In other words, they will see you as someone on their side. A
 sales call will feel easy and effortless if you’ve spent your time 
doing good marketing to them with the principles and techniques 
discussed so far. Great marketing has already done the job of “cold 
calling” for you or your salespeople. It now becomes a lot cheaper to 
call on a prospect (vs before where startups spend tons of money doing 
all cold calling and very little marketing).

On this note, it is also worth noting that a lot of startups invest a
 lot in SEO in writing up great content. But without promoting this 
content or educational material, it doesn’t really matter. Spend just as
 much time, money, and effort promoting the content you produce.

Start small, create great marketing, test offers, and bring them in 
to you. There is a completely different dynamic that occurs when the 
customer comes to you to inquire about your products or services 
compared to when you cold call on them. You want to be the former 
category.

During the sales call itself, you can focus more on asking questions and think about serving them in the best way possible.

**The Mindset:** You treat people like people. You don’t
 manipulate them with fancy persuasion tricks. You don’t have pressure 
filled closing techniques. You might win one sale from this, but over 
the long term, you create resentment in the mind of the customer if they
 feel duped. Even relying on your likeability alone is not enough. 
Because when circumstances call for it, they will demand more than that.

The only way to therefore sell is the same way you are supposed to 
deal with most humans: ethically, fairly, and sincerely. You do not 
“drive” a bargain with your spouse. You don’t “close” a deal with your 
kids. This sort of language alone implies that your prospects and 
clients are objects that you manipulate. They are not.

The objective of the salesperson might even be to disqualify the 
prospect! It is their task to see if the prospect is serious about 
buying now, or if they’re just window shopping. Good marketing will have
 eliminated most of these issues, but a neutral approach to selling can 
help put the salesperson in charge of the interaction.

**The Environment:** Create an environment where the 
customer can talk about their needs wants desires and goals without 
judgment. You start off each sales interaction trying to gauge why 
they’ve come to you. This can be as simple as admitting that the 
customer has many options. Admit that you have flaws. Why are they 
coming to you?

How can you do this? By no longer trying to relate to them, to become
 overly-friendly with them. Instead, focus on remaining neutral (yes, 
neutral). Be a blank slate. Keep asking questions. Do not express 
approval or disapproval over their choices. Do not grovel, do not beg, 
do not be a pushover. Remain neutral.

Next, bring up the “flaws” of your products and services upfront is a
 huge pressure valve. Bring them up before the customer does and you 
will see them much more at ease. Address the pluses and minuses before 
the customer does. This makes you a consultant with the customer’s best 
interests at heart, not a pushy salesperson. This elevates the sales 
process. It also disqualifies the people who are time-wasters, who are 
not suited for your product or service. Selling to these people might 
feel great when you “push past their resistance.” But it bites you 
later on when they grow disgruntled.

As a salesperson your goal is therefore to get pre-qualified leads 
through great marketing to explain why they want to do business with 
you. Your goal is to bring out all the things that are on their mind, 
and then explain to them the pros and cons, and all the ins and outs of 
working with you. After all this is done, you can get to the close

**The Close:** If you’ve followed the principles of 
direct response marketing, you know that you must ask for a close. This 
can be as simple as asking the prospect to take the next step. Have this
 figuring out beforehand. Don’t be afraid to ask for a close. The 
language can be as simple as “Shall I go ahead with your order then?” if
 it is appropriate.

This is a simplified method of selling which is very different than 
everything else in the market. It reduces friction and doesn’t follow 
the typical “pump yourself up” methods of motivational selling where the
 salesperson has to yell affirmations to feel good. I conduct a longer 1
 or 2 day workshop at companies to really go deep into this philosophy. 
To see if this is right for you, consider setting up a call with me to 
learn more and train your team in this method of selling.

### #10: Customer Service: The beginning of a relationship

The sale is not the end of the marketing, but really just another 
touch point. As has been discussed repeatedly above, the first sale is 
just the beginning of a relationship. Give the customer a reason to want
 to keep buying from you. Instead of chasing new customers, you can have
 it a lot easier selling more things to the same customer. That happens 
only when you provide an excellent experience to your customer.

This goes back to your USP. If service is what sets you apart, then 
deliver on it. Even if it doesn’t, find ways to deliver better service, 
and more ways to contact them. There is no such thing as too little 
follow-up. Nowadays, with modern tools, it is easier than ever to 
contact your customers and keep them engaged. Right after the first sale
 is done, thank them for trusting you for their time and money. Reassure
 them that they made the right choice in buying from you. Give them 
ideas on how they can best use the product or service you provided them.

After a certain interval, check in to make sure they are doing fine. 
Offer them the educational material that you prepared for them. This is 
also the right time to start thinking about upsells and cross sells with
 other products and services provided either by you or by other 
complimentary businesses that can enhance the life of your customer.

You must become an ally to your customer. Learn everything you can 
about their world and find ways of serving their needs. This is not 
about becoming a supplicating doormat who breaks his or her back, where 
you give in to every one of the customer’s demands. Not at all. This is 
about essentially changing the dynamic of this relationship where they 
won’t ask you to bend over backwards because you’ve given them value 
above and beyond what any other competitor will.

This value is not always the product or service itself, it is often 
the way that product or service is delivered to them. It started with 
the direct-response marketing style which was focused on the customer’s 
needs, wants, desires, goals, and values. It happened with great 
education based content that enriched their lives instead of typical 
marketing that tells everyone how great your business is. It went into 
the personalized touch that happened when you got referrals from them 
(or when they were referred to you), the customized messages they got 
when you segmented your list properly, and found opportunities from 
other companies to promote to them. All of these things can set you 
apart…and it has little to do with the product or service itself.

This is the heart of transcending your business from a mere commodity
 business into a preeminent business which becomes the only choice for 
your customers. Great customer service ties it all together.

---

What now? That’s the end of the 10 strategies. There is a way to get 
all of these pieces running on full power. Learn how in the next page.

### Implementation

Commit yourself to testing, experimenting, and iterating constantly. 
Your business is not a destination, and neither is marketing. This is an
 ever evolving and fun way to be there to serve your customer. Isn’t 
that what makes work and your business most enjoyable? When you get to 
connect with your customers, and provide something valuable to them?

That is the heart of marketing. So commit yourself to experimenting 
and testing. Do small tests and if things work, go bigger and bigger (as
 much as your appetite holds).

When it comes time to implement these ideas, pick the one that feels 
the most right to you AND that you feel is easiest to implement. There 
is a tremendous power that comes from snowballing your success. Perfect 
one thing before moving on to the next.

Don’t feel pressured to have everything humming along perfectly. 
Perfect is the enemy of done. So focus on implementing the ideas in here
 as well as you can. Having some sharpness or expertise in marketing is 
better than having anything. Even a Principles and Strategies discussed 
here will go a long way.

---

You’ve learned some powerful strategies so far.

What are your big questions left about marketing strategies still lingering in your mind?

What would you like clarified further? What can be made more clear? What was most useful?

Share your story, comments, or questions below!

In the next section, we’ll look at some tools to make all these pieces work together!

## Tools

The following tools, if used with the principles described previously
 and with the right strategies, will be very effective in helping you 
succeed.

You need tools that you can iterate it on easily. That means they 
have to be easy to use for you, and easy for you to understand, make 
changes, and measure results. I am proposing a few tools that can help 
you accomplish this.

### Digital

You might struggle with keeping your website up to date. If you do, then I have great news for you. [WordPress](http://wordpress.org) is
 free and one of the easiest tools on the Internet to build and maintain
 your website. It is dead simple to use. Updating it is also a breeze. I
 believe that if you can write an email, or write documents on your 
computer, then you can maintain your own website and update [WordPress](http://Wordpress.org).

You’ll be in safe hands if you use [WordPress](http://Wordpress.org). You can create your own custom design and pictures and work on this. There are scores of freelancers that you can hire on [Upwork.com](http://upwork.com) who will help you with design and editing if you need. But look for 
tutorials on YouTube.com on how to install and get started with [WordPress](http://wordpress.org) on
 your domain name. It won’t take more than 20 mins to 1 hour to get up 
and running, and the payoff is high since you can make changes so 
quickly.

However, if even this is too daunting, I recommend using even simpler online website builders like [wix.com](http://wix.com) or [squarespace.com](http://squarespace.com).
 Today, maintaining an up to date website is a must in order to inform 
existing and new customers. It is also an important tool to collect 
customer data and nurture them over time.

In addition to your website, there are many tools out there that can 
help you deliver great customer service to your customers. You should 
also consider using email management systems. Even a Customer 
Relationship Management (CRM) software that keeps track of all the 
interactions you have with customers. [Hubspot](http://hubspot.com) is
 one such software which is virtually free with limited functionality 
that you can sign up and get using right away. A great CRM will help you
 keep track of all your customers, keep notes on them, and communicate 
with them.

[Mailchimp](http://Mailchimp.com) is a simple tool to help
 you do emails en masse to your customers. You can customize all fields 
of the email to make it look personal to anyone. It is also free to use 
for up to 2,000 people on your list. Beyond that, you pay. For a lot of 
small businesses, this is more than they need.

To connect all these tools together, look at Plugins within [WordPress](http://wordpress.org) itself. They can help you connect it all together. If you want to make [Hubspot](http://hubspot.com) talk with [Mailchimp](http://mailchimp.com), look at the integrations tab in [Hubspot](http://hubspot.com). They will help you do it.

Please note that I have not been compensated from any of these 
companies to write about them here. I’ve looked at many solutions 
(certainly not all, of which there are hundreds if not thousands), and 
this setup has the best balance of value for money, ease of use, and 
enough sophistication to allow the amount of control you want.

### Analog

Despite what everyone else says, email or even direct mail remains 
the most powerful tool to market to people in scale. Barring in-person 
mediums like telephone, speaking, or one-on-one meetings of course.

Direct mail can be a powerful tool as well, as long as your mail does
 not look like spam. What do you do when you get an email that looks 
like spam? You throw it away! In the same way, what happens when your 
mailbox is filled with flyers and useless offers by yet another credit 
card company? You throw it away!

The key to getting your direct mail or emails read is to make your 
piece look like its written by a human. Use a real stamp if you can. 
Don’t use teaser copy on your envelope. While there are certain cases 
where this can work, for the average small business or startup owner, 
think simple and human. This can be a huge differentiating factor. It 
can be the difference between a person opening your mail or throwing it 
away in the bin then and there.

---

On the next page, we will learn more about outsourcing a lot of this stuff.

### Outsourcing

Knowing how all this works, you won’t ever be fooled by a salesperson
 who flashes his smile and winks her eye to get you to invest in 
something that doesn’t work. Beware of people with no skin in the game. 
Beware of people who are incentivized to do something contrary to your 
interests.

I had to hire a Facebook consultant to help me run campaigns for a 
company I was invested in. This consultant not only charged a retainer 
fee, but also wanted to make 10% of the ad spend. Out of the 18 people 
we interviewed, only 1 person was honest enough to say that Facebook was
 not a good use of our time and money given the market we were trying to
 reach. Everyone else said Facebook will definitely work and that 
they’ll keep “experimenting” to get something until it works. This 
virtually guarantees that the consultant extracts the most amount of 
money out of the company because he makes money when he spends more 
money on Facebook. Beware of consultants that don’t have skin in the 
game — a great consultant should sit on the same side of the table as 
you. Your loss should be their loss and your gain should be their gain. 
Unfortunately, don’t rely on someone to be honest in this situation when
 it is in their interest to make money from them not being fully honest 
with you.

I once was advising an educational institute on how to do marketing. 
They were on the brink of insolvency. They had somehow committed 
$10,000/month for ads in the equivalent of a coupon saver pack because 
the owner was impressed by the sales rep who sold it to her by hearing 
all the fancy numbers. No one in her target market would read that, but 
based on emotion and a few big numbers, she had sunk a lot of money into
 this and refused to get out of it.

You should also not care about how many hours a consultant puts into 
their work. A lot of consultants charge by the hour. That means even if 
there isn’t any work needed, they end up billing you more for their busy
 work (think a lot of lawyers). I believe when hiring a consultant for 
your marketing, you should hire based on results. Hire people who stand 
behind their work. That’s how I structure the deal with a 1 page 
agreement usually and I deal primarily with the owner or entrepreneur 
him or herself so as to avoid any needless politics. I pride myself in 
having a performance based approach to my pricing. I make most of my 
money when you make money. And if I don’t deliver results, I don’t make 
money. That’s fair and I believe that’s having real skin in the game.

If you are interested in my services to help you with your marketing and sales, please go on [my contact page](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/) and fill out the form to get started. Even if I don’t have the 
bandwidth to work with you directly, I should be able to refer you to 
other options that I would feel good about.

Nevertheless, for routine mundane activities, you can pay by the hour or pay per project. For example, sites like [Fiverr.com](http://fiverr.com) will give you a fair understanding of how much a completed project will charge. Similarly, you can make job postings on [Upwork.com](http://upwork.com).
 All you have to do is search for “your key word here” + “outsource” and
 you will find plenty of people to do specific pieces of marketing for 
you.

### Other things?

The question of tools is vast. Can I expand this section? Create a 
supplementary guide? Let me know what kinds of questions you have 
regarding this and let me know filling out the form [here](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/).

Technologies change all the time. But some things are here to stay. 
Websites will stay, and so will email. If you aren’t following the 
principles above, don’t waste your time on the newest tech tactic or 
channel. Focus on the fundamentals. Use evergreen tools that you know 
will pay off. A clean website that sells your products and services in a
 way that customers want to look at will pay off. So will email. It’s 
not going anytime soon. And direct mail and telephone still work, so 
write that letter to your customer list, and make those phone calls. 
They still work.

---

What tools were most interesting to learn about? How can you empower 
your marketing efforts with better tools? What would you like to learn 
more about?

Share your thoughts, comments, and stories below!

## Final Thoughts

We went over a lot of materials. But to make all of this work, you 
need to build a system. You can implement the principles and ideas above
 haphazardly. But to reap the true rewards of all this, you need an 
engine or a system that can reliably work. Investing in this engine can 
be one of the most important things you can do for your business. This 
is how you can “make money while you sleep” because you know that more 
customers are coming your way. This is where the fear of scarcity, a 
recession, business cycles goes away. You’ve created an engine.

Build this engine over the next few weeks to a few months and run it with full horsepower.

I truly believe that business and trade is one of the most potent 
forces for good in this world. I believe marketing is a critical piece 
of that to help educate, inform, and get customers to identify and act 
in a way that aligns with their highest needs, values, goals, and wants.
 Marry great marketing with entrepreneurs like you committed to creating
 and selling great products and services, and we can get a very potent 
force to change the world.

### Fast-track your success

Building this marketing engine can feel daunting and difficult if 
this is all new. Even if it isn’t, the learning curve can appear steep. 
Some of you might still feel daunted by the personal changes you have to
 make to feel comfortable doing this. Perhaps writing and assembling 
pieces of this engine are difficult, time consuming, or you’d rather 
focus on other parts of your business.

Even if you use a few of these tactics, you will do better than most.
 But if you want to get everything out of your business, you will need 
to dedicate time, effort, or dollars to marketing.

Alternatively, you should consider hiring a marketing consultant 
(someone who gets the principles we discussed above) and paying them a 
fee is like getting money at discount. We discussed this before, but it 
bears repeating.

If someone can change your conversion rate from 1% to 2%, they have 
effectively doubled the effectiveness of your marketing, which means 
double the revenue. Is it possible for a marketing expert to do this? 
Yes. Just stay away from “Branding experts.” A well trained direct 
response marketer who knows how to design systems can do this for you. A
 great hire should also charge you a percentage of the performance they 
deliver–not just a flat retainer fee. This shows that they are confident
 in their abilities.

I’ve routinely worked with businesses where I have doubled, tripled, 
quadrupled their revenues with fixes to their marketing. You pay for the
 expertise and my ability to perform. And of course, I practice what I 
preach.

**My Risk Free Guarantee**: If my work doesn’t increase 
your business, then you get your money back. Your relationship with me 
should be profitable, and you should get results from my work.

If you’re interested in growing your business, and have the means and
 ability to scale up over time, and are looking to hire a marketing 
expert, you can contact me [here](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/) to explore working together. My fees are based on performance, so you 
risk little when we work together except the hard costs you would have 
spent on marketing anyways.

Even if you don’t use me, consider hiring someone who gets the concepts discussed above. [Contact me](https://dhawaltank.com/contact/).

## Your Turn

And now I’d like to turn it over to you:

Did you learn something new from this guide?

Or maybe you have a question.
